slides.md, before:

% Bsides Seattle 2025
% Jeff Bryner
% https://github.com/jeffbryner/bsidesSeattle2025

# AI FOR security

## Big Idea

- USE AI 
- AI can help you reduce toil
- AI can give you that time back to do other things

## What this talk is
- A practical, actionable talk on how to use AI in your security program
- Live DEMOS (demo gods beware)
- Practical

## What this talk is not
- An intro to AI
- Threat modeling *of AI*
- A discussion of what model is best
- Perfect. I'm not a perfect speaker, I don't know everything, AI moves fast!


# General productivity

## Off the shelf FTW

- Video/meeting note taking
- Summarizing compliance docs like HITRUST, NIST, etc or customer contracts
- Write Policy documents

## Demo
- Writing policy without writing policy
- Input: HITRUST
- Output: Policy

## Policy
 ![](./demos/HITRUST-policy-writing.mp4)

# Summarize yer SOC

## Idea 

- How much effort do you put into daily summaries, shift turnover notes, upstream reporting, etc from your SOC? 
- AI can help you with repeatable, punctual, predictable summaries and give you that time back

## Demo
- Summarizing daily SOC activity
- Input: SOC alerts
- Output: Daily summary

## SOC Summary
 ![](./demos/AlertSummary.mp4)


# Get credit for your work

## Idea

- Follow [Daniel Meissler’s](https://danielmiessler.com/blog/fabric-origin-story) [alma security program markdown template](https://github.com/danielmiessler/fabric/blob/main/Alma.md) and use it to get credit for those big projects you got across the line, or remind you of why you pivoted.

## Demo
- Manage your security program with AI
- Input: Security program described in markdown
- Output: Conversations about your security program

# Risk analysis

## Idea

- Give AI the framing of a project/initiative and have it prompt you through a risk analysis to highlight next steps

## Demo
- Use a team of risk experts acting together to get a risk analysis of a sample project
- Input: Project description
- Output: Risk analysis

# Agents to explore your data

## Idea

- Chat with your SOC, ticketing or other data stores to see what insights they may have without writing SQL/etc

## Demo
- Have a conversation with your data.
- Input: SOC data, vulnerability data
- Output: Conversational interaction with your data.




# Thank you!
## Jeff Bryner
- @0x7eff
- https://jeffbryner.com
- https://github.com/jeffbryner

Commit message:

add sample code for soc summary

slides.md, after:

% Bsides Seattle 2025
% Jeff Bryner
% https://github.com/jeffbryner/bsidesSeattle2025

# AI FOR security

## Big Idea

- Security teams should USE AI
- AI can help you reduce toil
- AI can give you that time back to do other things
- AI can help you do things you wouldn't normally be able to do

## What this talk is
- An actionable talk on how to use AI in your security program
- Live DEMOS (demo gods beware)
- Practical

## What this talk is not
- An intro to AI
- Threat modeling *of AI*
- A discussion of what model is best
- Perfect. I'm not a perfect speaker, I don't know everything, AI moves fast!


# General productivity

## Off the shelf FTW

- Video/meeting note taking
- Summarizing compliance docs like HITRUST, NIST, etc or customer contracts
- Write Policy documents

## Demo
- Writing policy without writing policy
- Vibe GRC-ing? 
- Input: HITRUST
- Output: Policy

## Policy
 ![](./demos/HITRUST-policy-writing.mp4)

# Summarize yer SOC

## Idea 

- How much effort do you put into daily summaries, shift turnover notes, upstream reporting, etc from your SOC? 
- Maybe you don't do it at all because it's a pain? 
- AI can help you with repeatable, punctual, predictable summaries
- Gives you that time back, or creates insights you wouldn't have otherwise had

## Demo
- Summarizing daily SOC activity
- Input: SOC alerts
- Output: Daily summary

## SOC Summary
 ![](./demos/AlertSummary.mp4)

## SOC Summary via code
- see ./demos/summarize-the-soc/

# Get credit for your work

## Idea

- Follow [Daniel Meissler’s](https://danielmiessler.com/blog/fabric-origin-story) [alma security program markdown template](https://github.com/danielmiessler/fabric/blob/main/Alma.md) and use it to get credit for those big projects you got across the line, or remind you of why you pivoted.

## Demo
- Manage your security program with AI
- Input: Security program described in markdown
- Output: Conversations about your security program

# Risk analysis

## Idea

- Give AI the framing of a project/initiative and have it prompt you through a risk analysis to highlight next steps

## Demo
- Use a team of risk experts acting together to get a risk analysis of a sample project
- Input: Project description
- Output: Risk analysis

# Agents to explore your data

## Idea

- Chat with your SOC, ticketing or other data stores to see what insights they may have without writing SQL/etc

## Demo
- Have a conversation with your data.
- Input: SOC data, vulnerability data
- Output: Conversational interaction with your data.




# Thank you!
## Jeff Bryner
- @0x7eff
- https://jeffbryner.com
- https://github.com/jeffbryner
